we start in Gaza where the Hamas lead
health authority says at least 25 people
have been killed and another 50 wounded
by Israeli shelling on a camp for
displaced people near the southern city
of Rafa relatives of those killed in one
of the strikes near a Red Cross Field
Hospital say Israeli forces fired a
second time and that blast killed people
who were coming out of their tents
Israel's military says the incident is
under review and is looking into
potential strikes at the locations
reported by emergency
workers meanwhile Israel says it has
carried out a number of strikes on
Hezbollah targets across the border in
southern Lebanon the Israeli Army says
the strikes were in retaliation for
attacks carried out by iran-backed
militia in Northern Israel since the
October 7 Terror attacks and Israel's
subsequent war with Hamas there have
been daily clashes between the Israeli
Army Hezbollah and Allied groups in the
Border area between Israel and Lebanon
United Nations Secretary General Antonio
guish says he's deeply concerned about
the crossb
hostilities the risk for the conflict in
the Middle East to widen is real and
must be
avoided when rash move when
miscalculation could trigger a
catastrophe that goes far beyond the
border and frankly Beyond imagination
let's be clear the people of the region
and the people of the world cannot
afford Lebanon to become another Gaza
let's talk more about all this with Mara
zunshine in Tel Aviv she works for the
international crisis group an NGO with
the self-imposed goal of preventing Wars
worldwide welcome to DW um let me start
with my first question you just heard
that Stark warning from the UN Secretary
General the world in short can't afford
another Gaza in Lebanon how close are we
to that right
now uh hi Michael thanks for having me
um in some ways we've been close to that
for nearly nine months now since kisala
opened up a second front after the Hamas
attack um and like he said any
miscalculation at any moment could
strike a bigger war and I think it's
important to keep in mind that we've
been at this daily for eight months and
it's remarkable that it hasn't
deteriorated into more escalation and I
think that's a testament to the fact
that neither side is interested in an
allout War um so the question is how do
we get the quiet and I think at this
point even if Israel doesn't like it it
is linked to a ceasefire in Gaza which
is something that Israel's leader has
refused uh to do even to get the
hostages back um but at this point in
time kisala has been quite clear that
that would be the prerequisite for at
least the beginning of a deao quiet on
the North northern border and until that
happens we will continue to be in a
situation at at any point in time uh it
could break out into further
escalation Hezbollah of course is allied
with Hamas in the Gaza Strip but is
considered much more powerful how would
a war with Hezbollah differ from the one
we're all watching in real time with
Hamas uh it would be absolutely
devastating for both sides um it was a
devastating war in 2006 uh for both
sides but primarily in Lebanon andala
has uh amassed itself a huge amount of
precise weaponry and Munitions and it
has been testing out those weapons in
Israel and testing Israel's defense
systems uh and frankly also after eight
months of War uh on two fronts Israel is
not really prepared I think um for this
kind of escalation um and it's also a
question what would it achieve if it
invaded Lebanon um and how long would
that last uh but either way you know
Israel has promised to destroy Beirut
kisala has said that it could invade the
Galilee which is in Northern Israel um
it would be catastrophic for both sides
in a situation in which you already have
displaced persons you already have uh
people being injured being killed um it
would be possibly also a wider Regional
War the us could be dragged in uh it
would be a
disaster my ra uh this past week in
Washington US Secretary of State Anthony
blinkin spelled out the Paradox of this
conflict quite simply it's a war nobody
wants not Israel not Hezbollah and
certainly not the Lebanese so why
nevertheless are we heading in that
direction at
least well I think kisala has decided to
link the two fronts uh and I think that
that link is now cemented and Israel uh
uh understands that um and needs to
decide how it wants to position itself
uh and so far it has allowed the
operation in Gaza despite the fact that
it has made no strategic breakthrough to
continue even at the expense of what's
happening on its northern border even
without providing any kind of plan or
timeline for the tens of thousands of
citizens who want to go back to their
homes um so you know I think this is
partly it's definitely the onuses on
kisala and on the axis of resistance
which has decided that it will keep up
the pressure on Israel as long as it is
in hostilities in Gaza um but it's also
on Israel to decide on a strategic plan
and a policy for the future security of
of its of its citizens this is something
that has to do also with uh its
occupation and continued military
control over the Palestinian people
which is something that uh many
countries in the Middle East are not
willing to tolerate but also in terms of
how Israel understands uh its future if
it wants to continue with war or if it
wants to try at least um to pursue a
path of diplomacy right which it hasn't
done for a very long time that's Myra
zunshine in Tel Aviv from the
International crisis group really
appreciate your time and your
perspective thank you